# RShiny_DisasterImpact
Over the years, data has shown that some countries have been trapped at specific levels of development. Despite global improvements in development indicators such as Gross National Income Per Capita (GDP Per Capita), many countries are still unable to keep up with those in higher-ranked nations. According to the United Nations Office on Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), it is suggested that disasters can significantly impact the national development level. Thus, this visualisation explores the relationship between disasters and development levels, using the Human Development Index (HDI) as the measure of development. This project leverages R Shiny to create visualisation exploring the relationship between disasters and development levels, using the Human Development Index (HDI) as the measure of development. We examine how different types of disasters impact countries in terms of health, education, and economic levels. We highlight how countries at similar development levels experience similar types of disasters, contrasting with those at different development levels. The findings can shed light on disasters' critical role in hindering national development. Most importantly, policymakers can develop targeted strategies to mitigate the effects by understanding the specific impacts of different disasters. Furthermore, recognising disaster patterns among countries can also help in tailoring region-specific disaster risk reduction and resilience-building measures.
